Cds 49945 servicev1 eol notice (#362)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-delivery/onboard-cd/upgrading/upgrade-cd-v2.md

## Why make the change?

The v2 experience has more robust service and environment entities. V2 has service variables, independent infrastructure definitions, environment groups, and file and variable overrides. 

> With v2, you'll notice an major reduction in the configuration included into pipelines. These changes are also reflected in the the Harness APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With v2, you'll notice an major reduction in the configuration included in pipelines. These changes are also reflected in the the Harness APIs.
```

Reviewer: "With v2, you'll notice an major reduction in the configuration included in pipelines." is a little fuzzy. Perhaps something like "V2 requires much less YAML code to define pipelines."

All new deployment types (ECS, Deployment Template, SSH, WinRM, etc.) are available in v2 only. New innovations such as Enterprise GitOps, multi-services and multi-environments, and environment groups, are in v2 only. 

The new v2 experience has been designed to provided users and organizations with simpler configurations and an improved ability to scale.

## Customer impact

Here's a summary of the impact to Harness accounts:

> - The changes only impact your CD module. No other modules are impacted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The changes impact your CD module only. No other modules are impacted.
```

- No impact on any existing pipelines using v1 services and environments. 
- Post 1/31/2023, when you create a new CD stage in an existing pipeline, the v2 experience will be the default.

:::note

Please note that any new services and environments created in Harness after 1/31/2023 will use the new v2 experience.

:::

## Important dates

Please review these important dates before upgrading.

- Service and environment v1 APIs are being deprecated in March 2023.
- On the official EOL date (Jan 31, 2023), v1 services and environments will continue to work as before. After March 2023, pipelines with v1 services and environments might experience issues or even failures because Harness will not update v1 with fixes or enhancements after that date.
- Harness will globally enable service and environments v2 APIs for all customers at the end of January 2023.

> - The forced change is needed to reduce the migration effort needed for users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The forced change will reduce the migration effort needed for users.
```

- Harness has an automated tool to help migrate your services and environments from v1 to v2.

We are happy to assist you in your migration to the new v2 experience. For any questions or comments, please contact `support@harness.io` or your CSM. Together we can work through discovery, migration planning, and assist with the process.

## API changes

> Harness has introduced the follow new APIs to support the v2 experience:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Harness has introduced the following new APIs to support the v2 experience:
```

Examples are provided in [Changelog since service and environment v1 release](#changelog-since-service-and-environment-v1-release) below.

## Changelog since service and environment v1 release

This section contains all the v1 to v2 changes for each of the impacted entity types.

### Services

The following changes apply to services:

- To use the service in a pipeline, service definitions must be configured via API/UI/YAML.
- The service definition is a configuration mapped to the service irrespective of the pipelines where it is used.
- For details on service v2, go to [Services and environments overview](../cd-concepts/services-and-environments-overview.md).
- The service entity is now moved from the pipeline to a standalone entity. The service contains the following components:
  - **Name**, **Description**, **Tag**, **Id**. These are the same as in the service v1 experience.
  - Manifests and artifacts. The service manifests and artifacts are now mapped in the service. They are moved out of the pipeline **Service** tab.
  - Service variables. Service variables are now associated with the Service and can be overridden at the environment level.

#### Service YAML updates

> Here is a a YAML sample the demonstrates the changes in v2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a a YAML sample that demonstrates the changes in v2.
```

                                    - <+org.description>
                      variables:
                        - name: var1
                          type: String
                          value: val1
                        - name: var2
                          type: String
                          value: val2
                    type: Kubernetes
                  gitOpsEnabled: false
              EOT
}
```

### Environments

The following changes apply to v2 environments:

- Environments are now standalone objects with global environment variables and manifest configurations.
- V2 **Environment Service Overrides** and **Environment Variables** can override service variables when the service is deployed into a given environment. Based on the variable name, Harness can override the service variable with the environment variable value.
- Harness has introduced service-specific environment overrides where users can define specific services and variables they want to override for a given environment.
- For details on environments v2, go to [Services and environments overview](../cd-concepts/services-and-environments-overview).

#### Environment groups

> V2 introduces environment groups. You can now group environments and manage them at scale. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
V2 introduces environment groups. You can now aggregate environments and manage them at scale. 
```

             - manifest:
                 identifier: manifestEnv
                 type: Values
                 spec:
                   store:
                     type: Git
                     spec:
                       connectorRef: <+input>
                       gitFetchType: Branch
                       paths:
                         - file1
                       repoName: <+input>
                       branch: master
           configFiles:
             - configFile:
                 identifier: configFileEnv
                 spec:
                   store:
                     type: Harness
                     spec:
                       files:
                         - account:/Add-ons/svcOverrideTest
                       secretFiles: []
      EOT
}
```

### Infrastructure definition

Harness has taken the infrastructure definition that was originally defined in the pipeline and moved it to the environment. For more information, go to [ Services and environments overview](../cd-concepts/services-and-environments-overview).

Here are the changes to infrastructure definition:
 
- The infrastructure definition can only be associated with 1 environment.

> - The infrastructure definition is required for a pipeline execution to run. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The infrastructure definition is required to run a pipeline execution. 
```
